Hey guys welcome back to the chorus.
Long time no see.
Hopefully Simon didn't take you astray and I'm assuming we're still selling lemonade and haven't pivoted.
Is something weird like buying and selling lemon futures.
OK so we've made it through our little warm up exercise.
Got introduced or reintroduced to what models at their bare essentials look like something that's worth
understanding especially if you're someone who considers the idea of complex modeling to be intimidating.
Is that if you can wrap your head around that basic version of a model we just ran.
You can easily figure out the more complex models down the road all financial models follow that same
rough pattern.
We think about our business.
We research.
We write all of that down all the aspects of our business we can think about or think are worth analyzing
and then we make some educated assumptions.
Now every industry is going to be a little bit different but still any time you model you're going to
need to cover the same things.
We just covered unit economics demand prediction average transaction value.
Planning for expansion overhead etc. etc. it's important to keep in mind that the activity of financial
modeling is really just an activity of getting to know your business better and doing your best to understand
the logistical and market dynamics that are going to affect you going forward if you improve your skill
at building models you'll improve your overall ability to understand and predict your business whatever
it may be.
The reason we ran through this basic example first is because it's an essential building block that
you can master easily and then quickly grow from.
We didn't even touch things like ramping up sales seasonality marketing campaigns taxes good old taxes
employees training turnover week days versus week ends we can model things like cash flow.
We could model how everything would change if we took outside investment and infuse that into our growth
projections.
We could model the complexity of fixed price licensing for locations we could cover franchising.
There are a lot of different levels of complexity we could add and we'll add throughout this course.
But we wanted to make sure that we're all essentially on the same page.
Before we go forward into the more complex stuff.
All right next section we're going to start talking about the best practices of modeling so you know
them before you start to actually build out more complex systems and start getting into more modern
business models like freemium or SAS or upswelling models et cetera et cetera.
In general you will launch a solid foundation in the best practices for financial modeling if you want
to do modeling in the future.
So I strongly suggest you don't skip the next section.
All right.
See in.